OKTA-479331: Developer doc for Custom Source Integration Delegated (#3167)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/csi-delauth-hook/index.md

The following command is supported for the delegated authentication request:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `com.okta.action.update`          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |

##### value

The `value` object is the parameter to pass to the command. For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object that contains a `credential` property set to one of the following values:

- `VERIFIED`: The user is authenticated successfully.
- `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials.
- `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked.
- `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled.
- `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password is expired.
- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user doesn't exist in the source.

For example, to indicate that the user authenticates successfully, return the following:

```json
{
  "commands": [{

>     "type": "com.okta.user.profile.update",

Author: ```suggestion
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
```

For information on the API for registering external service endpoints with Okta, see [Inline Hooks Management API](/docs/reference/api/inline-hooks/).

## About

The Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook enables you to delegate authentication of a user to an external identity source.

The hook supports a few operations. It first allows you to import a user into Okta after a successful authentication. From there it allows delegated authentication of the user to the external source, and fetches the latest profile of the user from the external source.

Each of these operations corresponds to an individual inline hook invocation, and each corresponding request is tagged with a `requestType` property in the request headers.

The following sections describe each of these operations and the objects in their requests and responses.

## User attributes

To support user lifecycle and credential lifecycle operations, we expect the external source to provide certain attributes:

- `status`: The status of the user, with a value of ACTIVE or DISABLED.
- `passwordExpiryTime`: The time when the user's password expires, in the form of Epoch time.

> - `lastUpdate`: When the user's profile was last updated in the external source.

Reviewer: do we need to specify a format for this value?

Author: Good point, using the Epoch time like passwordExpiryTime would be good. Let me update.

> - `lastUpdate`: When the user's profile was last updated in the external source.

Author: ```suggestion
- `lastUpdate`: When the user's profile was last updated in the external source, in the form of Epoch time.
```

#### commands

The `commands` object is where you can provide commands to Okta. It is an array, allowing you to send multiple commands. Each array element needs to consist of the following name-value pair:

| Property | Description                                           | Data Type       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands) | String          |
| value    | The parameter to pass to the command                  | [value](#value) |

##### Supported commands

The following command is supported for the delegated authentication request:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `com.okta.action.update`          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |

> ##### value

Reviewer: in the fetch profile and auth + fetch request types, you added #####com.okta.action.update before ##### value. Can you follow the same pattern here

Author: Yeah there's a discrepancy that needs to be removed. After looking at the other inline hook (registration for example), they don't explicitly list the command name before value, so I've updated the other two sections to do the same.

The `value` object is the parameter to pass to the command. For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing a `credential` property set to one of the following values:

> - `VERIFIED`: The user is authenticated successfully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `VERIFIED`: The user is authenticated successfully.
```

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials.
```

> - `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked.
```

> - `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled.
```

> - `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password has expired

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password is expired.
```

- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user does not exist in the source

> For example, to indicate the user authenticates successfully, return the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to indicate that the user authenticates successfully, return the following:
```

```json
{
  "commands": [{

>     "type": "com.okta.user.profile.update",

Author: You're right, this should be an action update like the one below.

| Property | Description                                           | Data Type       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands) | String          |
| value    | The parameter to pass to the command                | [value](#value) |

##### Supported commands

The following commands are supported for the profile fetch operation:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `com.okta.action.update`         | Specify the result of the operation, either success or one of the causes of failure. |
| `com.okta.appUser.profile.update` | When profile fetch succeeds, this command contains the current profile for the user. |

> ##### com.okta.action.update

Reviewer: what is this line? Seems out of place

###### value

> For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing an `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object that contains an `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:
```

> - `FETCHED`: The user profile is fetched successfully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `FETCHED`: The user profile is fetched successfully.
```

> - `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user does not exist in the source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user doesn't exist in the source.
```

> - `FAILED`: The operation failed and the detailed cause is in the error object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `FAILED`: The operation failed and the detailed cause is in the error object.
```

> For example, to indicate that the profile is fetched successfully you would return:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to indicate that the profile is fetched successfully, you would return:
```

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "appUser.profile": "FETCHED"
    }
  }]
}
```

> Another example for the situation when the specified user does not exist in the source you would return:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another example for the situation when the specified user doesn't exist in the source, you would return:
```

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "appUser.profile": "UNKNOWN_USER"
    }
  }]
}
```

##### com.okta.appUser.profile.update
###### value

> For the `com.okta.appUser.profile.update` command, `value` should be an object containing a list of properties for the user profile, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the `com.okta.appUser.profile.update` command, `value` should be an object that contains a list of properties for the user profile, for example:
```

      "value": {
        "sub": "id1",
        "website": "http://isaac.brock.net",
        "zoneinfo": "UTC",
        "birthdate": "1/1/1980",
        "address.locality": "Seattle",
        "gender": "male",
        "profile": "http://isaac.brock.net",
        "preferred_username": "isaac.Brock",
        "locale": "",
        "given_name": "Issac",
        "middle_name": "Sebastian",
        "picture": "http://isaac.brock.net/isaac_rock.png",
        "address.country": "USA",
        "address.postal_code": "98103",
        "address.region": "WA",
        "name": "Isaac.Brock",
        "nickname": "Brockalli",
        "phone_number": "1234567890",
        "family_name": "Brock",
        "email": "isaac.brock@test.com",
        "address.street_address": "123 45TH St",
        "lastUpdate": "token_for_update",
        "status": "ACTIVE"
      }
    }
```

#### error

When you return an error object, it should contain an `errorSummary` sub-object:

| Property     | Description                          | Data Type |
|--------------|--------------------------------------|-----------|
| errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error | String    |

> Returning an error object will cause Okta to record a failure event in the Okta System Log. The string you supplied in the `errorSummary` property of the `error` object will be recorded in the System Log event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returning an error object causes Okta to record a failure event in the Okta System Log. The string that you supplied in the `errorSummary` property of the `error` object is recorded in the System Log event.
```

      "appUser.profile": "FAILED"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample JSON payloads of the responses from your external service to Okta

```json
{
  "commands": [
    {
      "type":"com.okta.action.update",
      "value":{
        "appUser.profile": "FETCHED",
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "com.okta.appUser.profile.update",
      "value": {
        "sub": "id1",
        "website": "",
        "zoneinfo": "UTC",
        "birthdate": "1/1/1980",
        "address.locality": "Seattle",
        "gender": "male",
        "profile": "http//isaac.brock.net",
        "preferred_username": "isaac.Brock",
        "locale": "",
        "given_name": "Issac",
        "middle_name": "Eugene",
        "picture": "",
        "address.country": "USA",
        "address.postal_code": "98103",
        "address.region": "WA",
        "name": "Isaac.Brock",
        "nickname": "Brockalli",
        "phone_number": "1234567890",
        "family_name": "Brock",
        "email": "isaac.brock@test.com",
        "address.street_address": "123 45TH St",
        "lastUpdate": "token_for_update",
        "status": "ACTIVE"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Delegated authentication with profile fetch request

> This type of request has the following `requestType`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This type of request has the following `requestType`: `user.authenticate.fetch`
```

> - `user.authenticate.fetch`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

### Objects in the request from Okta

The outbound call from Okta to your external service includes the following objects in its JSON payload:

#### data.context.credential

Provides two name-value pairs, one for identifying the subject user to authenticate, and the other for providing the password of that user.

#### data.action

> The current default action that Okta takes if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current default action that Okta takes if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response that specifies the action to take.
```

### Objects in the response you send

The `commands` and `error` objects that you can return in the JSON payload of your response are defined as follows:

#### commands

> The `commands` object is where you can provide commands to Okta. It is an array, allowing you to send multiple commands. Each array element needs to consist of the following name-value pair:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `commands` object is where you can provide commands to Okta. It's an array that allows you to send multiple commands. Each array element needs to consist of the following name-value pair:
```

| Property | Description                                           | Data Type       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands) | String          |
| value    | The parameter to pass to the command                 | [value](#value) |

##### Supported commands

The following commands are supported for the Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook type:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `com.okta.action.update`          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |

##### com.okta.action.update
##### value

> For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing a `credential` property set to one of the following values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object that contains a `credential` property set to one of the following values:
```

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials.
```

> - `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked.
```

> - `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled.
```

> - `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password has expired

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password is expired.
```

> - `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user does not exist in the source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user doesn't exist in the source.
```

> or an object containing an `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or `value` should be an object that contains an `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:
```

> - `FETCHED`: The user is authenticated successfully and the profile is fetched successfully`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `FETCHED`: The user is authenticated successfully and the profile is fetched successfully.
```

> - `FAILED`: The operation failed and the detailed cause is in the error object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `FAILED`: The operation failed and the detailed cause is in the error object.
```

> For example to indicate that the user authenticates successfully and the profile is fetched successfully, you would return:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to indicate that the user authenticates successfully and the profile is fetched successfully, you would return:
```

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "appUser.profile": "FETCHED"
    }
  }]
}
```

Another example for the situation when the user account fails authentication due to the account being disabled:

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "credential": "ACCOUNT_DISABLED"
    }
  }]
}
```

#### error

When you return an error object, it should contain an `errorSummary` sub-object:

| Property     | Description                          | Data Type |
|--------------|--------------------------------------|-----------|
| errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error | String    |

> Returning an error object will cause Okta to record a failure event in the Okta System Log. The string you supplied in the `errorSummary` property of the `error` object will be recorded in the System Log event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returning an error object causes Okta to record a failure event in the Okta System Log. The string that you supplied in the `errorSummary` property of the `error` object is recorded in the System Log event.
```

---
title: Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook Reference
excerpt: Add custom logic to the Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication process.
---

# Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook Reference

<ApiLifecycle access="beta" />

This page provides reference documentation for:

- JSON objects contained in the outbound request from Okta to your external service

- JSON objects you can include in your response

This information is specific to the Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook, one type of Inline Hook supported by Okta.

## See Also

For a general introduction to Okta Inline Hooks, see [Inline Hooks](/docs/concepts/inline-hooks/).

For information on the API for registering external service endpoints with Okta, see [Inline Hooks Management API](/docs/reference/api/inline-hooks/).

## About

> The Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook enables you to delegate authenticate a user by an external identity source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook enables you to delegate authentication of a user to an external identity source.
```

> The Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook enables you to delegate authenticate a user by an external identity source.

Reviewer: "enables you to delegate authentication of a user..." ?

> The hook supports a few operations. It first allows you to bring a user into Okta after successful authentication. From there it allows delegated authentication of the user to the external source, and fetch latest profile for the user from the external source.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The hook supports a few operations. It first allows you to import a user into Okta after a successful authentication. From there it allows delegated authentication of the user to the external source, and fetches the latest profile of the user from the external source.
```

> The hook supports a few operations. It first allows you to import a user into Okta after a successful authentication. From there it allows delegated authentication of the user to the external source, and fetches the latest profile of the user from the external source.

Reviewer: Do we want to call out that this scenario is commonly known as "Just In Time (JIT) provisioning?"

Author: It's one of Trevor's recommendations in inline hook data contract review to not use JIT term in the inline hook level as the hook remains a generic channel, so I have been intentionally avoid using that term as much as possible in inline hook doc and code.

> Each of these operations corresponds to an individual inline hook invocation, and each corresponding request will be tagged with a requestType property in the request headers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each of these operations corresponds to an individual inline hook invocation, and each corresponding request is tagged with a `requestType` property in the request headers.
```

> The following sections describes each of these operations about the objects in their requests and responses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following sections describe each of these operations and the objects in their requests and responses.
```

## User attributes

> In oder to support user lifecycle and credential lifecycle, we expect the external source to provide certain attributes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To support user lifecycle and credential lifecycle operations, we expect the external source to provide certain attributes:
```

> - `status`: The status of the user, with value ACTIVE or DISABLED.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `status`: The status of the user, with a value of ACTIVE or DISABLED.
```

> - `passwordExpiryTime`: The time when the user's password will expire, in the form of Epoc time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `passwordExpiryTime`: The time when the user's password expires, in the form of Epoch time.
```

> - `lastUpdate`: When the user's profile was last updated in the external source

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `lastUpdate`: When the user's profile was last updated in the external source.
```

## Delegated authentication request

> This type of request has the following requestType:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This type of request has the following `requestType`:
```

- `user.authenticate`

### Objects in the request from Okta

> The outbound call from Okta to your external service will include the following objects in its JSON payload:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The outbound call from Okta to your external service includes the following objects in its JSON payload:
```

#### data.context.credential

Provides two name-value pairs, one for identifying the subject user to authenticate, and the other for providing the password of that user.

#### data.action

> The current default action that Okta will take. Okta will take this action if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current default action that Okta takes if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.
```

### Objects in Response You Send

The `commands` and `error` objects that you can return in the JSON payload of your response are defined as follows:

#### commands

The `commands` object is where you can provide commands to Okta. It is an array, allowing you to send multiple commands. Each array element needs to consist of the following name-value pair:

| Property | Description                                           | Data Type       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|

> | type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands). | String          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands) | String          |
```

> | value    | The parameter to pass to the command.                 | [value](#value) |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| value    | The parameter to pass to the command                  | [value](#value) |
```

##### Supported Commands

The following command is supported for the delegated authentication request:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | com.okta.action.update          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `com.okta.action.update`          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |
```

##### value

The `value` object is the parameter to pass to the command. For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing a `credential` property set to one of the following values:

- `VERIFIED`: The user is authenticated successfully

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credential

Reviewer 3: Would `invalid credentials` be more accurate? I.e., incorrect username or password?

Author: Agreed - `invalid credentials` would be better, please make a change suggestion, thanks.

Reviewer 3: Same, saw you fixed. Resolved.

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credential

Author: ```suggestion
- `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials
```

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credential

Author: ```suggestion
- `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials
```

Reviewer 3: Already fixed. Resolving comment.

- `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked

> - `ACCOUNTOUN_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Author: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled
```

> - `ACCOUNTOUN_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Reviewer 3: Is this value correct? `ACCOUNT_DISABLED` instead?

Author: good catch - should be `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`.

Author: Would you please generate a change request so that I can use to replace since other changes are handled in that way?

Reviewer 3: Sorry, missed this, and I see you fixed it. Resolving.

- `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password has expired
- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user does not exist in the source

> For example, to indicate the user authencates successfully you would return the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, to indicate the user authenticates successfully, return the following:
```

    "value": {
      "credential": "VERIFIED"
    }
  }]
}
```

Another example for the situation when the user account fails authentication due to account being disabled:

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "credential": "ACCOUNT_DISABLED"
    }
  }]
}
```

#### error

When you return an error object, it should contain an `errorSummary` sub-object:

| Property     | Description                          | Data Type |
|--------------|--------------------------------------|-----------|
| errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error. | String    |

Returning an error object will cause Okta to record a failure event in the Okta System Log. The string you supplied in the `errorSummary` property of the `error` object will be recorded in the System Log event.

### Sample JSON Payload of Request from Okta to Your External Service

```json
{
  "eventId": "3o5iAzq1SmOGmmssqDyzeM",
  "eventTime": "2020-12-10T23:10:33.000Z",
  "eventType": "com.okta.custom.source.delegated.authentication",
  "eventTypeVersion": "1.0",
  "contentType": "application/json",
  "cloudEventVersion": "0.1",
  "requestType": "user.authenticate",

>   "source": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/inlineHooks/cal11h7VDs8LC4DAi0g4",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "source": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/inlineHooks/cal11h7VDs8LC4DAi0g4",
```

Reviewer 3: Style issue we're trying to fix up across dev docs: removing $ from code samples that are not requesting input.

  "data": {
    "context": {
      "request": {
        "id": "X9Ma2IQOokP4O1Cqr85u9QAACx0",
        "method": "POST",
        "url": {
          "value": "/api/v1/authn"
        },
        "ipAddress": "127.0.0.1"
      },
      "credential": {
        "sub": "6ycN3AkgJfun",
        "password": "eoJE!JR^##7ppK"
      }
    },
    "action": {
      "credential": "UNVERIFIED"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample JSON Payloads of Responses from Your External Service to Okta

```json
{
  "commands":[
    {
      "type":"com.okta.action.update",
      "value":{
        "credential":"VERIFIED"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Profile fetch request

> This type of request has the following requestType:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This type of request has the following `requestType`:
```

- `profile.fetch`

### Objects in the request from Okta

> The outbound call from Okta to your external service will include the following objects in its JSON payload:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The outbound call from Okta to your external service includes the following objects in its JSON payload:
```

#### data.action

> The current default action that Okta will take. Okta will take this action if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current default action that Okta takes if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.
```

### Objects in Response You Send

The `commands` and `error` objects that you can return in the JSON payload of your response are defined as follows:

#### commands

The `commands` object is where you can provide commands to Okta. It is an array, allowing you to send multiple commands. Each array element needs to consist of the following name-value pair:

| Property | Description                                           | Data Type       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|

> | type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands). | String          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands) | String          |
```

> | value    | The parameter to pass to the command.                 | [value](#value) |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| value    | The parameter to pass to the command                | [value](#value) |
```

##### Supported Commands

The following commands are supported for the profile fetch operation:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | com.okta.action.update          | Specify the result of the operation, either success or one of the causes of failure. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `com.okta.action.update`         | Specify the result of the operation, either success or one of the causes of failure. |
```

> | com.okta.appUser.profile.update | When profile fetch succeeds, this command ontains the current profile for the user. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `com.okta.appUser.profile.update` | When profile fetch succeeds, this command contains the current profile for the user. |
```

##### com.okta.action.update
###### value

> For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing a `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing an `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:
```

> - `FETCHED`: The user profile is fetched successfully`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `FETCHED`: The user profile is fetched successfully
```

- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user does not exist in the source
- `FAILED`: The operation failed and detailed cause is in the error object

For example, to indicate that the profile is fetched successfully you would return:

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "appUser.profile": "FETCHED"
    }
  }]
}
```

> Another example for the situation when the speficied user does not exist in the source you would return:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another example for the situation when the specified user does not exist in the source you would return:
```

```json
    {
      "type": "com.okta.appUser.profile.update",
      "value": {
        "sub": "id1",
        "website": "http://isaac.brock.net",
        "zoneinfo": "UTC",
        "birthdate": "1/1/1980",
        "address.locality": "Seattle",
        "gender": "male",
        "profile": "http://isaac.brock.net",
        "preferred_username": "isaac.Brock",
        "locale": "",
        "given_name": "Issac",
        "middle_name": "Sebastian",
        "picture": "http://isaac.brock.net/isaac_rock.png",
        "address.country": "USA",
        "address.postal_code": "98103",
        "address.region": "WA",
        "name": "Isaac.Brock",
        "nickname": "Brockalli",
        "phone_number": "1234567890",
        "family_name": "Brock",
        "email": "isaac.brock@test.com",
        "address.street_address": "123 45TH St",
        "lastUpdate": "token_for_update"
        "status": "ACTIVE"
      }
    }
```

#### error

When you return an error object, it should contain an `errorSummary` sub-object:

| Property     | Description                          | Data Type |
|--------------|--------------------------------------|-----------|

> | errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error. | String    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error | String    |
```

      "appUser.profile": "FAILED"
    }
  }
}
```

### Sample JSON Payloads of Responses from Your External Service to Okta

```json
{
  "commands": [
    {
      "type":"com.okta.action.update",
      "value":{
        "appUser.profile": "FETCHED",
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "com.okta.appUser.profile.update",
      "value": {
        "sub": "id1",
        "website": "",
        "zoneinfo": "UTC",
        "birthdate": "1/1/1980",
        "address.locality": "Seattle",
        "gender": "male",
        "profile": "http//isaac.brock.net",
        "preferred_username": "isaac.Brock",
        "locale": "",
        "given_name": "Issac",
        "middle_name": "Eugene",
        "picture": "",
        "address.country": "USA",
        "address.postal_code": "98103",
        "address.region": "WA",
        "name": "Isaac.Brock",
        "nickname": "Brockalli",
        "phone_number": "1234567890",
        "family_name": "Brock",
        "email": "isaac.brock@test.com",
        "address.street_address": "123 45TH St",
        "lastUpdate": "token_for_update"
        "status": "ACTIVE"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Delegated authentication with profile fetch request

> This type of request has the following requestType:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This type of request has the following `requestType`:
```

- `user.authenticate.fetch`

### Objects in the request from Okta

The outbound call from Okta to your external service will include the following objects in its JSON payload:

#### data.context.credential

Provides two name-value pairs, one for identifying the subject user to authenticate, and the other for providing the password of that user.

#### data.action

> The current default action that Okta will take. Okta will take this action if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The current default action that Okta takes if your external service sends an empty HTTP 204 response. You can override the default action by returning a `commands` object in your response specifying the action to take.
```

### Objects in Response You Send

The `commands` and `error` objects that you can return in the JSON payload of your response are defined as follows:

#### commands

The `commands` object is where you can provide commands to Okta. It is an array, allowing you to send multiple commands. Each array element needs to consist of the following name-value pair:

| Property | Description                                           | Data Type       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| type     | One of the [supported commands](#supported-commands). | String          |

> | value    | The parameter to pass to the command.                 | [value](#value) |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| value    | The parameter to pass to the command                 | [value](#value) |
```

##### Supported Commands

The following commands are supported for the Custom Source Integration Delegated Authentication Inline Hook type:

| Command                         | Description                                                                                                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | com.okta.action.update          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `com.okta.action.update`          | Specify the result of the authentication, either success or one of the causes of failure. |
```

##### com.okta.action.update
##### value

For the `com.okta.action.update` command, `value` should be an object containing a `credential` property set to one of the following values:

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credential

Reviewer 3: credentials plural?

Reviewer 3: Fixed. Resolved.

> - `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credential

Author: ```suggestion
- `UNVERIFIED`: The user fails to authenticate due to invalid credentials
```

- `ACCOUNT_LOCKED`: The user account is locked

> - `ACCOUNTOUN_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Reviewer 3: Double-checking on the value. Is "ACCOUNTOUN_DISABLED" correct?

Reviewer 3: Checking JSON examples, it appears to be "ACCOUNT_DISABLED"

Reviewer 3: Fixed. Resolved.

> - `ACCOUNTOUN_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Author: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled
```

> - `ACCOUNTOUN_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled

Author: ```suggestion
- `ACCOUNT_DISABLED`: The user account is disabled
```

Reviewer 3: Already fixed. Resolved.

- `PASSWORD_EXPIRED`: The user password has expired
- `UNKNOWN_USER`: The user does not exist in the source

> or an object containing a `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
or an object containing an `appUser.profile` property set to one of the following values:
```

> - `FETCHED`: The user is authenticated successfully and profile is fetched successfully`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `FETCHED`: The user is authenticated successfully and the profile is fetched successfully`
```

> - `FAILED`: The operation failed and detailed cause is in the error object

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `FAILED`: The operation failed and the detailed cause is in the error object
```

> For example to indicate that the user authenticats successfully and profile is fetched successfully, you would return:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example to indicate that the user authenticates successfully and the profile is fetched successfully, you would return:
```

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "appUser.profile": "FETCHED"
    }
  }]
}
```

> Another example for the situation when the user account fails authentication due to account being disabled:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another example for the situation when the user account fails authentication due to the account being disabled:
```

```json
{
  "commands": [{
    "type": "com.okta.action.update",
    "value": {
      "credential": "ACCOUNT_DISABLED"
    }
  }]
}
```

#### error

When you return an error object, it should contain an `errorSummary` sub-object:

| Property     | Description                          | Data Type |
|--------------|--------------------------------------|-----------|

> | errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error. | String    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| errorSummary | Human-readable summary of the error | String    |
```

Returning an error object will cause Okta to record a failure event in the Okta System Log. The string you supplied in the `errorSummary` property of the `error` object will be recorded in the System Log event.

### Sample JSON Payload of Request from Okta to Your External Service

```json
{
  "eventId": "3o5iAzq1SmOGmmssqDyzeM",
  "eventTime": "2020-12-10T23:10:33.000Z",
  "eventType": "com.okta.custom.source.delegated.authentication",
  "eventTypeVersion": "1.0",
  "contentType": "application/json",
  "cloudEventVersion": "0.1",
  "requestType": "user.authenticate.fetch",

>   "source": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/inlineHooks/cal11h7VDs8LC4DAi0g4",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "source": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/inlineHooks/cal11h7VDs8LC4DAi0g4",
```
